# nAMD-Cost-model
Repository containing the Code & related comments used to model costs for different drugs for treatment of Neovascualr Age - Related Macular Degeneration in the Norwegian context.
The model has been theoretically developed in collaboration with Bayer AS - Oslo, and the fundations were layed by previous collaborative work betwene Bayer AS and Oslo Economics, a consultancy company in Oslo.
I took over previous work by Oslo Economics and developed it, while employed at Bayer. The results lead to an indepent collaboration between me, a senior author, Professor, and Doctor at Oslo University Hospital (Deprtament of Ophtalmology)m and a Ph.D. employed at Oslo Economics, with the aim of publishing the model & results, which adds up to a grwoing amount of literature on the subjects. The results include "static" yearly treatment prices, over a 2 year horizon, for individual drugs, and "dynamic" yearly treatment prices, over a 2 years horizon, to assess the economic impact of a commonly implemented strategy for treatment in Norway. This strategy involves starting patients on an apparenlty cheaper but less effective drug, and after a certain amount of time switching treatment resistant patients to a seeminlgy more expensive, but more effective, drug.

The objective was to asses whether considering only pharmaceutical costs might lead to systematic underestimation of treatment prices, notably given that a less effective medication requires more injectiions. In other words, the objective was to model the cost of a higher treatment intensity. This argument has been brought up by previous lietrature in differnt countries, including the UK and the Netherlands.

Most of the data used is sourced from official governmental sources, and the model contains some assumptions. Among these, the most important assumptions consist in the number of injections, particularly the ones used to model the cost for the switching regimen (which involves assessing the costs for a swithcing arm, and a non - switching arm). There is a clear limitation of comparability: data on number of injections is sourced from different studies (some RCTs, and some Observational Studies). This means that the resulting total costs might partially represent different between samples, other than different between treatment. Moreover, the Observational Study from which the data on the switching regimen in the Norwegian context could not disclose patient - level data. This means that we had make additional assumptions on how many injections of Drug 2 the switchig arm received after switching from Drug 1 (cohort 2 and compared this to the non - switching arm, which in turn refers to cohort 1 in the same study (although the cohorts were assessed to be statisically similar). 

# Sensitivity Analysis
To tackle all these limitations, an automated version of this model has been developed where all inputs - from unit costs, to number of injections - can be changed individually, which allows to explore the total costs under different assumptions and how sensitivity are results to input changes. The results, as well as the sensitivity analysis, should eb interpreted carefully and by either informed individual or professionals working in ophtalmology.

# Sources & Documentability 
Under request, a full document containing every single theoretical, matheamtical and statisical consideration involved in the model construction is reported, including sources and detailed calculation, to ensure reproducibility and adapt it or change it for different national contexts, or for intellectual disagreement. In case the reader whish to change the model for the latter reason, I would be grateful to know how the reader thinks the model can be improved, regardless of the change being related to clinical theory/pratcice, mathematics translation and/or statisical rigour.

# Disclaimer and Tips
The model is an approximation of real - life treatments. It has, as stated, plenty of limitations. It is, however, the best that could be done with the available data & its related privacy limitations. The statisical uncertainity related to the yearly costs is to be assessed within a clinical framework, rather than a statisical one, due to the afoerementioned data limitations. This means that the uncertainity cannot be precisely quantified, but the model can be judged by informed individuals and/or professional to be more or less relastic and representative of clinical pratcice. The sensitivity analysis tool can help such assessmenet, in case informed individuals wish to change some of the assumptions, or update some unit costs with more recent data.
